have you ever wondered about the
Columbia Pictures woman why is she in
the clouds why is she dressed like some
kind of goddess why is she holding a
torch like the Statue of Liberty or what
that Pegasus are they related they look
to be everything about this logo invites
questioning well today I'm going to
answer some of those questions and
explain a little about the history of
this logo so who is she well the answer
is she's Columbia well who's Columbia
Columbia was an early American female
personification of the United States of
America she stood for American ideals
one of which being enlightenment hence
the torch but Columbia was never really
that defined she was pretty flexible and
was used to take up just about any cause
the reason you don't really hear much
about her anymore
is once the Statue of Liberty went up
she pretty much replaced Columbia as a
female symbol of America if you look at
the earlier versions of this logo she
wears a flag rather than a Greek looking
robe that makes it much clearer she's
meant to be an American symbol however
in the 1940s federal law was passed
making it illegal to wear an American
flag as clothing so it was changed to an
ordinary cloth I'm sure you're wondering
why anyone could possibly care enough to
pass a law like that but what I'm
wondering is why that law apparently
extended to fictional women in film
logos what about that face why does she
have that face that seems to draw you in
whose face is that well many many women
have modeled as Columbia over the years
including semi known actresses like
Evelyn Venable who you might know as the
voice of the Blue Fairy in Pinocchio and
also complete unknowns the story of the
face we all know is a pretty interesting
one in 1976 Columbia retired the torch
lady for a number of years she returned
in 1981 but the one we all know first
appeared in 1992 when Sony bought
Columbia Pictures as well as Tristar
they decided they needed some new logos
the logo was painted digitally and
the artist Jenny Joseph modeled for it
on her lunch break she was wrapped in an
ordinary bedsheet and held up a desk
lamp as the torch the face though is not
hers
Michael J Diaz the illustrator hired to
create the logo constructed a composite
face made up of several
computer-generated features I can only
assume that's why the face always stood
out to me as a kid he also created the
cloud background and it is the same one
used in the Tristar look just for a
little bonus here's a little history on
that Pegasus Tristar means three stars
but the reason a Pegasus was chosen was
because executive victor kaufman simply
liked horses at the same times the new
columbia logo was being made they
introduced the new Tristar logo this
used footage of a real horse combined
with photos of feathers and digital
paint to create the wings the cloud
background also comes from real footage
shot from the East Maui volcano
[Music]